Prepare Hooks (#658)
wagmi-dev/wagmi: docs/pages/docs/prepare-hooks/intro.en-US.mdx

---
title: 'Prepare Hooks'
description: 'What are Prepare Hooks?'
---

import { ValidationComparisonTable } from '../../../components/docs/ValidationComparisonTable'

# Prepare Hooks

In previous versions of wagmi, "transactional" hooks such as `useSendTransaction` and `useContractWrite` performed potentially long-running asynchronous work. These hooks internally invoke the [ethers `signer.sendTransaction` function](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/api/signer/#Signer-sendTransaction) that fetches the gas estimate & block number, and resolves an ENS name (if needed) before the transaction gets sent. On a slow network, these asynchronous tasks can take a while.

> Performing asynchronous tasks in an event handler (like a button) or in a non-initiated user event (like a page load) is not ideal as it can lead to a variety of connected user-experience (UX) related pitfalls ([listed below](#ux-pitfalls-without-prepare-hooks)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performing asynchronous tasks in an event handler (like a button) or in an event that wasn't initiated by the user (like a page load) is not ideal as it can lead to a variety of connected user-experience (UX) related pitfalls ([listed below](#ux-pitfalls-without-prepare-hooks)).
```
